A graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes that have data and are connected to other nodes through edges.
Nodes are circles represented by numbers. Nodes are also referred to as vertices. They store the data. The numbering of the nodes can be done in any order, no specific order needs to be followed.

An undirected graph is a graph where edges are bidirectional, with no direction associated with them, i.e, there will be an undirected edge. In an undirected graph, the pair of vertices representing any edge is unordered. Thus, the pairs (u, v) and (v, u) represent the same edge.
A directed graph is a graph where all the edges are directed from one vertex to another, i.e, there will be a directed edge. It contains an ordered pair of vertices. It implies each edge is represented by a directed pair <u, v>. Therefore, <u, v> and <v, u> represent two different edges.

1 2 3 5 is a path.
1 2 3 2 1 is not a path, because a node can’t appear twice in a path.
1 3 5 is not a path, as adjacent nodes must have an edge and there is no edge between 1 and 3.

It is the number of edges that go inside or outside that node.


Property: It states that the total degree of a graph is equal to twice the number of edges. This is because every edge is associated/ connected to two nodes.

For directed graphs, we’ve Indegree and Outdegree. The indegree of a node is the number of incoming edges. The outdegree of a node is the number of outgoing edges.

Edge Weight
A graph may have weights assigned on its edges. It is often referred to as the cost of the edge
If weights are not assigned then we assume the unit weight, i.e, 1. In applications, weight may be a measure of the cost of a route. For example, if vertices A and B represent towns in a road network, then weight on edge AB may represent the cost of moving from A to B, or vice versa

Given an integer n representing number of vertices. Find out how many undirected graphs (not necessarily connected) can be constructed out of a given n number of vertices.
The answer is 2^((n*(n-1))/2)